
Employee Comments

Here is a summary of my achievements in 2020 that clearly show how I have gone beyond my goals and expectations.
1.     Transformed Analytics Toolkit with Four (4) New Analytics Platforms: In 2020, I have successfully juggled with multiple priorities and implemented four (4) new platforms for Modeling and Analytics community – (i) Python On-Premise on Kubernetes, R toolsets on Cloud, Jupyter Notebook Instance on SageMaker, and Domino Data Lab. In these platforms, I have actively engaged to enable nine different tools as listed below:
·      Jupyter Lab with JupyterHub
·      RStudio Server Pro IDE
·      RStudio Connect
·      RStudio Package Manager
·      R Batch on AWS
·      Python Batch on AWS
·      SageMaker Jupyter Notebook Instance
·      SAS Studio
·      VSCode
Besides establishing these platforms and tools, I have actively involved in user engagement activities for SageMaker, Kubernetes, and the newly implemented Domino Data Lab platforms. After user engagement, I have simplified launching the SageMaker Python Notebook with a AWS Service Catalog product that secured users' notebooks by restricting access to a user’s notebook from other users. For Kubernetes, I listened to users and application teams across the company and resolved roadblocks to enable user adoptions. Now there are more than 400 users in the Python On-premise platform. Domino is still going through implementation where I have engaged with the pilot users and worked through all the findings and user requests for improvements. 
 
2.     Enabled Cloud Adoption with Python Training and 36 SAS to Open-source code examples: I have regularly shepherded open-forum discussions, “decision-tree” and roadmap guidance and knowledge sharing sessions with Analytics communities to facilitate SAS to open-source migrations. Besides guiding my team to develop a “SAS Code Analyzer” tool, I have the following additional achievements:
a.     I have personally developed 36 code examples for SAS to facilitate SAS conversion to Python. documented them at https://confluence:8443/display/ACEA/SAS+to+Python+Conversion and shared these examples regularly with users. I have also presented these example codes at enterprise level brown bag sessions jointly with Data Science team (CL Kuo) and FBA.
b.     My team has also converted 12 business applications and EUCs from SAS to R & Python.
c.     I have published weekly Analytics Tool Usage metrics to help senior management to track progress.
d.     Conducted 20 sessions to train 430 SAS users to adopt R and Python. For Python training, I was also the lead trainer.
e.     Together with team I have published about 70 knowledge articles on Python, R analytics and AWs cloud.
 
3.     Reduce Complexity: I have made a superb progress in this area to exceed expectations. Beginning of the year I have retired legacy “Symphony” after moving all distributed computing to LSF. This will contribute to about $50,000 per year savings for the company. Throughout the year, we have innovated & automated over 25 new work processes that has increased precision of platform management and reduced maintenance time by more than 80%. These automations have also eliminated 95% of the manual work for the weekly metric generation process. This has ultimately contributed towards bringing the unplanned platform downtimes to zero. Later in the year, I have integrated analytics and DevOps tools like Anaconda Package Manager, R-Package Manager, Bitbucket and Nexus with Kubernetes On-Premise, SageMaker and Domino.
 
Besides these I have also developed COE team to the next level. In January 2020, I developed ACOE strategy and roadmap where I have successfully attained full team engagement using WOW and Agile methodologies. I have used a combination of video and graphical presentations to engage the team during the planning sessions. As the team was fully engaged in planning, they subsequently demonstrated full ownership and commitments throughout the year.
Though 2020 was little disruptive for my team due to moving out of SAS and Cloud migration initiatives for R and Python toolsets, I have successfully kept the team motivated and engaged by using internal and external tools and trainings like AWS, Safari and FMU. I held regular coaching and mentoring sessions throughout the year.  I have also provided hands on guidance on Open-source libraries, Docker container, Python and various AWS services related to our analytics need. As a result, I have not only been able to develop the new hire employees but also been able to develop senior employees like Anthony.
I have lived through Fannie Mae vision, values and behaviors guidelines in 2020. In order to serve our partners and customers, I have expanded Analytics CoE services to new teams in OSS, Dallas and Enterprise Risk Management groups. I helped these teams to develop codes and build their systems and got recognized by them. We led by examples using regular open-forums, knowledge articles and trainings. We also brought external trainers to stay on top of the latest analytics tools and trends. To get things done and done right, we have upgraded all the key platforms like DDN, R Grid and Python versions. We have innovated and automated 25 manual process to reduce human error.  We have worked as one Fannie Mae team by working together with our partners like Team eCOS, Cloud CoE, InfoSec, SFA and many more teams in order to successfully implement four new platforms for the Fannie Mae analytics community.

2019:
Rabbani had a very successful and delivered against many challenges. He was always open to suggestions and sought feedback for opportunities to improve.
Due to the high-profile nature of the focus from senior leadership on enterprise analytics capabilities, Rabbani had to work hard in motivating his team to focus not only on those deliverables but also personally contribute whenever required. He achieved these goals against many unexpected challenges including health and family related issues experienced by multiple members of his team during the year. Here are a few examples of his accomplishments:
·       Rabbani successfully led the introduction of various new analytics tools such as Anaconda Navigator for Windows (includes JupyterLab and Spyder for 400+ Python users), Dash-Plotly for Python, JupyterHub on Linux, RStudio Package Manager and RStudio Connect.  These tools are an important part of the overall analytics journey.
·       There was a significant expectation from the senior management and analytics community for an active and effective engagement and leadership from the Analytics CoE during the year to support various activities. Rabbani did an excellent job in organizing the team and leading by example. He created forums such as Confluence and MS Teams for Analytics CoE and teams. He created a Postgres SQL database to organize operational data. It helped towards the automation of the Analytics CoE monthly report. He guided his team to automate monthly maintenance work for analytics platforms by developing scripts which helped the team to focus on the emerging needs of the analytics users.
·       There was a new guidance from senior management for analytics teams to move off from SAS to open-source tools and platforms. He led the development of a strategy and roadmap for SAS to open-source cloud journey. He organized relevant material and made them available at a Confluence page. He partnered with various other teams and started implementing Python and R tools on premise as well as AWS. He developed an analytics tools usage dashboard and trend report to track the progress of teams’ journeys from SAS to open source platforms.
 His customers consider him as a valuable resource and rely on him to get questions answered, problems solved and get guidance. His team feels that he has been a great leader and noticed a positive motivation from Rabbani with respect to work-life balance and prioritization of tasks. He not only encouraged his senior resources to step up and deliver the complex and critical tasks but also guided on how they can achieve it. His constructive feedback helped them to enhance their skills which were required to build the team to help frequent and ever demanding analytics customer base. He gives opportunities for team members to learn and explore new products and encourages everyone to become self-sufficient and reduce dependency on other team members. He provides guidance and helps team members make right decisions.

2019 became a uniquely challenging year for me after the change of direction in the second quarter in terms of moving out of SAS and DataRobot. However, I have embraced these changes with the full enthusiasm and delivered greater-than-expected results by consistently exceeding the requirements needed to fulfill my role and identified goals. Some of the key highlights are shown below:
•       Enabled multiple new analytics tools to advance Fannie Mae analytics capabilities:  New tools include Anaconda Navigator for Windows (includes JupyterLab and Spyder for 400+ Python users), Dash-Plotly for Python, JupyterHub on Linux, RStudio Package Manager and RStudio Connect.  All of these tools can contribute significantly to achieve Fannie Mae’s strategic goals of moving out of SAS.
•       Significantly raised the standard of Analytics CoE:  As the team needed to maintain both the current platform while standing up the new open-source platforms and COE services without any additional resources, it was vital to get superbly organized, and automate the ACOE works as much as possible. To do this, I have worked long hours and created examples for the team so that they can organize the ACOE works using Confluence and MS Teams. I have developed the confluence page for Analytics CoE with all the information in one place and then created a Postgresql database to organize all the operational data. These has helped the team to expedite automation of ACOE Monthly report. Besides these, I directed my team to automated monthly maintenance work for analytics platforms by developing scripts for all major steps. By doing these, the team is able to operate at higher level where they are able to spend more time in value addded activities like implementing new analytics tools on AWS Cloud, providing training to analytics users, developing new skills etc.
•       Boosted the SAS to Open-source migration journey: Developed strategy and roadmap for SAS to open-source and cloud journey. Organized all the relevant these materials on Confluence page and created Microsoft Team site for code sharing and collaboration. Rapidly implemented Python, SAS and R toolsets on both on premise and also on EDL. Developed analytics tools usage dashboard and trend reporting using Python, Postgresql and Tableau to track the progress that can inspire the team to make their progress visible. Collaborated across AAE, EA, Cloud engineering and Analytics communities for knowledge sharing, communication and strategy implementation.
  
Besides these, I have successfully contributed to the EDI Career Development problem solving, Data Champion group, and trained more than 100 users on R and Python. All in all, I am very pleased to state that I have exceeded most of my annual goals and key milestones while demonstrating exceptional behaviors.
 
Behaviors: 
Rabbani often has the necessary details to answer questions but sometimes his message is scattering and unfocused and not as effective as it can be. He should slow down when speaking and have a clear point in delivering a message. 

After the change of direction from the new officer, it was very challenging for me to stop the magnificent progress made on SAS on cloud. However, I did not take time to address this difficult situation. After the new direction, I quickly highlighted the positive aspects of this decision and inspired my team to change their focus fully on Python and R. I divided the SAS resources into Python and R and motivated them to expedite their Python and R learning though they have developed deep expertise on SAS over last three years.  As I already had the Python and Postgresql expertise and gained one of the highest level of AWS Specialty certification, I was able to inspire, demonstrate and coach them on Python and AWS skills.  
As the team needed to maintain both the current platform while setting up the new open-source platforms and COE services without any additional resources, it was vital to get superbly organized and automate the ACOE works as much as possible. In order to lead by example, I myself organizes some of the key ACOE works using confluence and MS teams. I have developed the confluence page for Analytics CoE with all the information in one place.  I have created a Postgresql database and organized all the operational data to expedite automation of ACOE Monthly report. My team was able to create and automate the RShiny report pulling the data from this database. In parallel, I developed Tableau dashboards and trend reports to further automate the metrics generation for the whole analytics community. 
In order to enable analytics community to move out from SAS to open-source, I have created a confluence page and organized all the relevant materials under guidance of my director. I have created the site using confluence macros to simplify content management. 
To challenge the organization to adopt new ideas and solutions, I have participated in the Data Champion group and provided a python training for the participants across EDI in order to enable innovation with this open-source tool. I volunteered to manage interns from the reputed universities in this area to explore fresh ideas and perspectives. I volunteered to be teaching assistant for the Data Science training where I provided the Python and R platforms for the training participants and also shared all the training materials using Code Sharing and Collaboration site. I joined the EDI career development problem solving sessions and shared the recommended guidelines will all the AAE members through individual manager’s huddle. 
Lastly, in order to lead by example and gain trust from the analytics community, I have shared some important tips and tricks with the Python users so that they can use these tools to increase their productivity while working with JupyterLab.  After that a large group of users showed interest in learning Python from ACOE and we have arranged a series of Python training for SAS users to enable them to move out of SAS. 




2018:

Rabbani is a well-respected analytics platform leader (SAS/R/Python) among business teams. He has necessary technical strength to lead this team. Rabbani has talented individuals to support multiple Analytics Platforms and to fulfill our company’s vision and consumer needs. Under his direction the team has provided excellent support for SAS platform, R platform, Datarobot platform, Python rollout, SAS on AWS launch.
His team is fairly responsive to needs to SFA needs & other analytics community needs and good in aligning metrics/delivering on SLAs. Additionally they publish Analytics COE newsletter, that is well received by the Analytics community and they should continue this effort. The user community is interested in having training and materials on SAS & R. His team’s efforts in translating some of that material to standard work is important. Other accomplishments include successful migration of HAMP environment to SAS Grid resulted in an annual saving of $125K from reduced SAS license and hardware cost.
Rabbani brings good ideas to the table. His participation in WoW transformation was well recognized. He often volunteers for hackathons and other events held by enterprise modeling and analytics community. Rabbani was very helpful setting up the registration site for the two hackathons they organized last year – ACI hackathon and FAVM hackathon. He was quick to answer questions and make changes per our request. He is also open to partner with other teams and coordinates knowledge sharing sessions.
His team did a great job in upgrading R platform early last year and moving iCAT and Matlab to R cluster, among several other platform related activities. Rabbani keeps focus on customer needs and utilizes multiple channels to engage with them. In this effort Rabbani partners with other groups in organizing training sessions, participation in Analytics day etc. to exchange knowledge
Rabbani has promoted the adoption of the WoW culture within the team and has incorporated changes based on employee feedback. Rabbani tries to show genuine interest to promote a culture of listening, teamwork, and learning. Rabbani continues to look for opportunities to develop himself with new analytics technologies and tools. He helps in providing information for management consumption.

In 2018 I successfully achieved my goals and made additional contributions towards analytics platform and COE services. Some highlights are:
·       SAS version upgrade on Grid and Mainframe with the implementation of new statistical and analytical features and administrative capabilities; R version upgrade with 950+ package testing followed by users and applications migration; DataRobot upgrade with multi-series modeling, improved visualization and predictions capability
·       Architecture, design and implementation of SAS on Containers to enable SAS Analytics on cloud. Development of CoreGenie for SAS license management and then integration with Cloud Watch and DynamoDB
·       Successful migration of HAMP environment to SAS Grid. An annual saving of $125k (approx.) from reduced SAS license and hardware cost.
·       Process automation for a) SAS temp space clean-up, b) Monthly storage usage report, c) MyServices incident and support request reporting
·       Platform resiliency improvement with load-balancing, standby submit host, homogenous service setup and proactive monitoring and alerting of SAS workload
·       Development of standard work for user and application on-boarding where average on-boarding time reduced by half a day
·       Automated monitoring with Zimon for GPFS and Axway dashboard for SAS Grid
·       Employees cross-training for SAS, R, Python and DataRobot platform administration and user supports
·       Platform metrics development, validation with key customer, and then weekly reporting
·       SAS development support to Capital Market business analytics team without additional funding.  
In addition to the above, we have introduced SAS Viya for exploring latest ML, analytics and visualization services from SAS. I have actively contributed in machine learning hackathons like the delinquency prediction, AVM model improvements, and related initiatives like AYASDI benchmarking where I created a model in SAS Enterprise Miner and compared the performance with AYASDI.  Also, successfully completed the POCs for SAS/R/Python on cloud, H2O Driverless AI and Anaconda Enterprise.  Introduced text analytics with R and provided text analytics support and guidance to multiple business units.
In terms of people and process management, I have adopted Kanban and WoW tools for continuously improving and managing workflows. Developed employees with new skills like AWS Cloud, Docker/Container, Python Analytics, SAS Viya etc. Successfully completed CDM and WOW program and learned and used new management tools and ideas.  Provided coaching and mentoring to my team to enable them to provide elegant solutions to customers. My direct reports have demonstrated this behavior so successfully that they have been recognized with 41 beat rewards from business units across the organization. All in all, 2018 was a successful year for me.

2017:
Manager Rating

Behaviors 2, Results 2
Manager Comments
In 2017 Rabbani continued to strengthen and enhance the analytics platforms.  This included: maintaining the platforms (including upgrades, MULs, etc), improving platform resiliency, and implementing new technologies (such as R Grid and Data Robot).  In all these roles, Rabbani has met expectations in terms of results and behaviors. 
From a results perspective, below are his goals along with accomplishments and opportunities for 2018.
•	Develop Team with New Analytics Skills – In 2017 Rabbani continued to develop his team’s analytics skill sets.  This included developing expertise in Data Robot, Expanding the number of resources knowing Python, expanding the teams AWS skills.  This was achieved through executing POCs, implementing new technologies and supporting customer requests requiring new tools/components. In 2018 Rabbani should continue to identify ways to expand his team’s knowledge on the current platforms as well as new tools that could facilitate the way in which our analytics communities work.
•	 Facilitate Analytics with R and Python – In 2016 Rabbani introduced R to the analytics communities and convinced them to invest in a larger scale implementation.  For 2017 this resulted in implementing R Grid.  For this solution he integrated open source R with our Grid technology.  He also worked with his team to provide training to our analytics community to help with overall adoption of the platform.  From a Python perspective, Rabbani lead Python POC on AWS.  In 2018 Rabbani should build upon the work done in 2017 and partner with the Advanced Analytics team to build a self service offering for Python..
•	Implement Analytics on Big Data – In addition to the AWS Analytics POCs he lead, he and his team integrated our analytics tools to access our Data Lake.  This included implementing an open source solution for SAS and R access to PostgreSQL.  He also led the effort to implement SAS on AWS.  He was able to convince our business partners to cover the costs of the additional licensing.  In 2018, Rabbani needs to focus on implementing SAS on AWS and ensuring our Analytics partners have the appropriate training and support to be successful. 
•	Stabilize SAS Grid – In 2017, Rabbani implemented monthly maintenance windows to ensure the platform remains stable.  He and his team has also implemented enhanced monitoring, and developing a contingency plan for the Grid.  In 2018 he needs to continue focusing on how to address failures more proactively. 
From a behaviors perspective Rabbani meets Fannie Mae’s expectations across the 6 categories.  Some examples include:
•	We Serve our Partners – Two examples that demonstrate this behavior are Data Robot and support for the Loss Mitigation team.  For Data Robot , he supported the teams with the evaluation of the technology and supported their usage once the tool was implemented.  In the Loss Mitigation example, Rabbani and team created a predictive model so the team could rapidly analyze and understand their data.  In both cases Rabbani and his team received accolades from their customers.  
•	We Lead the Market – Rabbani demonstrated this behavior with the work he did related to Machine Learning.  Rabbani lead a one day session on how our customers could use the existing analytics tools and our Big Data platform to begin exploring machine learning.  He also performed several POCs and introduced the Enterprise to tools like Data Bricks. 
•	We can be Counted On – Rabbani’s ability to influence our analytics community to invest in SAS on AWS and continue to invest in R Grid demonstrates this behavior. 
•	We Value our People and Communities – Rabbani continues to look for opportunities to increase he and his team’s technical knowledge.  In 2017 he also led two different seminars for our customers.  The first was an Analytics Day where he shared what was happening within his organization and the products he supports.  The second was a Machine Learning day, where he shared content and invited experts to share how we could use our existing platforms to explore machine learning.
•	We are One Fannie Mae – As a platform owner, Rabbani has to be prepared to have difficult conversations, advocating for his customers and his team. An example is his work in negotiating the SAS AWS contract.  Without his persistence we wouldn’t have been able to successfully negotiate the new contract.
•	We Get Things Done, and Done Right – An example that demonstrates this behavior is Rabbani’s work on R Grid.  He developed an elegant cost effective solution.  Had we executed on this following a traditional approach this effort would have cost over $2M.  Rabbani and his team were able to implement this for approximately $250K.
Manager Comments
Employee Comments
I have significantly exceeded my 2017 goals with several major achievements. Highlights of some of these key achievements are:
•	R Grid - Designed and implemented a high available, fault tolerant scalable, low cost distributed open source R computing infrastructure together with commercially available client software like RStudio and RShiny.  This was an innovative solution that integrated open source R with enterprise cluster management software. The whole platform was implemented with only $250 thousand. Similar vendor supported implementations from Microsoft, Oracle, or IBM would cost over $2 million.
•	DataRobot Implementation- Evaluated DataRobot together with business and innovation teams and performed need analysis. Successfully implemented DataRobot in Fannie Mae which is now being leveraged to create massive efficiencies in the development and improvement of economic/credit/risk models and in doing so inspiring our modelers to explore new or more advanced models. Developed Analytics CoE team on DataRobot platform administration.
•	Expanding the Python footprint at Fannie Mae – Worked with our research partners in expanding the Python implementation at Fannie Mae. This includes automating the analytics package deployment with Puppet, establishing interface for Spark with PySpark, evaluating and selecting a productive and efficient IDE, and sharing knowledges with our research partners.
•	Enabling Machine Learning in Fannie Mae – I have several significant achievements in this area – a) Conducted a machine learning workshop with 300 plus participants from business divisions across the enterprise. This provided a unique opportunity for our analytics community to learn machine learning tools using leading predictive modeling techniques in Python, R, SAS and Spark. b) Rolled out SAS Enterprise Miner and trained modelers and researchers. This tool is highly efficient and has enabled modelers to streamline the Machine Learning process with simple drag and drop interface,  and c) Implemented RSpark , H2O, and Scikit-Learn ML packages and partnered with ICAP, Sigma and other analytics users to enable adoption of these latest tools
In terms of people management, I always value my team members regardless of their level and adeptly delegate tasks and decisions with clear roles and responsibilities. I have continued the daily Kanban practices to track all the tasks and set appropriate priorities to manage team stress and balance workloads. I have conducted regular one on one meetings to maintain the team spirits and timely feedback process. All in all 2017 was a great year for me.


